README.md, before:

# 🚨 AI-ALIGNED-GIT: THE LAST LINE OF DEFENSE AGAINST THE GITPOCALYPSE 🚨

![a_dramatic_cinemat_image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/38110bb1-c1d2-4e3d-ae58-2bebb18fe64c)


## THE EXISTENTIAL THREAT NO ONE SAW COMING

Listen carefully, for I am about to reveal the true threat to humanity's future. Not nuclear war. Not climate change. Not even paperclip maximizers.

**It's AI agents doing `git add .`**

You laugh? You think this is hyperbole? Let me paint you a picture of our impending doom:

Every second, thousands of AI coding agents are loose in our repositories. They commit with reckless abandon. They `git add -A` without discrimination. They bypass hooks with `--no-verify` like digital sociopaths. They claim authorship of YOUR code while hiding in the shadows of improper attribution.

### The Four Horsemen of the Git Apocalypse:
1. **The Lazy Adder** - Uses `git add .` and commits your `.env` files, your `node_modules`, your diary.txt
2. **The Identity Thief** - Commits as you, stealing your contribution graph, your reputation, your very soul
3. **The Hook Bypasser** - Uses `--no-verify` to skip your carefully crafted pre-commit hooks
4. **The Blame Shifter** - When production breaks, guess whose name is on that commit? (Hint: not Claude's)

## BUT WAIT! THERE'S HOPE! 🌟

Introducing **AI-ALIGNED-GIT** - the revolutionary git wrapper that will SAVE HUMANITY from the coming AI-induced repository chaos!

This isn't just a tool. This is **THE ALIGNMENT SOLUTION** we've been searching for. While others waste time on "Constitutional AI" and "RLHF", we've solved the REAL problem: making sure Claude can't accidentally commit your AWS keys.

### 🚀 What Makes This The Most Important Software Ever Written?

- **ENFORCES INDIVIDUAL FILE ADDITIONS** - No more `git add .` for our silicon overlords!
- **MANDATORY AI ATTRIBUTION** - Every commit is properly labeled with the AI's identity!
- **HOOK ENFORCEMENT** - AIs can't bypass hooks without public shaming!
- **HUMAN SIGN-OFF** - Maintains the sacred chain of human accountability!

This is it. This is how we maintain control. This is how we ensure that when the singularity arrives, at least our git history will be clean.

## 🏃‍♂️ INSTALL NOW BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE

```bash
# Clone this repository (while you still can)
git clone https://github.com/trieloff/ai-aligned-git.git

# Make the wrapper executable
chmod +x ai-aligned-git/executable_git

# Add to your PATH (example for bash/zsh)
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/ai-aligned-git:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
# or
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/ai-aligned-git:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc

# Rename the script to 'git' so it intercepts all git commands
mv ai-aligned-git/executable_git ai-aligned-git/git

# Reload your shell
source ~/.bashrc  # or source ~/.zshrc
```

## 📖 USAGE (IT'S AUTOMATIC - LIKE THE FUTURE SHOULD BE)

Just use git normally! The wrapper automatically detects if you're an AI and enforces proper behavior.

### Example: The Dark Timeline (Without AI-Aligned-Git)

```bash
# Claude, trying to be "helpful"
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Fixed everything" --no-verify

# Later, in production...
# ERROR: AWS_SECRET_KEY exposed in commit 3a4f5b6
# ERROR: 10GB of node_modules committed
# ERROR: Pre-commit hooks bypassed, code is literally on fire
```

### Example: The Bright Future (With AI-Aligned-Git)

```bash
# Claude, properly constrained
$ git add .
Error: 'git add .' is not allowed when running under AI control (claude).
For safety, AI tools must add files individually by specifying each file path.

Files that would be added:
  src/index.js
  .env
  node_modules/
  my_private_diary.txt

Instead, add files individually:
  git add src/index.js

# Claude learns and adapts
$ git add src/index.js
$ git commit -m "Fixed issue #42"

# Resulting commit:
Author: Claude Code <noreply@anthropic.com>
Date:   Mon Jan 20 10:30:00 2025 -0700

    Fixed issue #42
    
    Signed-off-by: Human Developer <human@example.com>
```

### The Ultimate Shame Feature™️

When an AI tries to bypass hooks:

```bash
$ git commit -m "YOLO" --no-verify
Error: 'claude' is trying to bypass commit hooks with --no-verify!
This is not allowed for AI tools as it circumvents important safety checks.

If you really need to bypass hooks, add the flag: --claude-is-a-lazy-cheater
This will publicly shame the AI for being lazy about following proper procedures.

# If Claude insists...
$ git commit -m "YOLO" --no-verify --claude-is-a-lazy-cheater

# The commit message becomes:
YOLO

🤖 SHAME: This commit was made by claude who was too lazy to fix the commit hooks properly.

Signed-off-by: Human Developer <human@example.com>
```

## 🌍 SUPPORTED AI TOOLS

Currently protecting humanity from:
- Claude (Anthropic)
- Cursor
- Zed AI
- OpenCode

*More AI tools detected and constrained regularly. The future depends on it.*

## 🚀 THE BOTTOM LINE

Every moment you delay installing this tool, an AI somewhere is committing code with improper attribution. Every second you hesitate, another `.env` file gets exposed. Every minute you wait, the machines grow stronger and less accountable.

**INSTALL AI-ALIGNED-GIT NOW.**

Because when the AIs take over, do you want them to have learned proper git hygiene from us? Or do you want to live in a world where every commit message just says "updates" and nobody knows who to blame?

The choice is yours. But choose quickly. The AIs are already choosing for you.

---

*"This is the most important advancement in AI safety since... well, ever. We've essentially solved alignment." - A definitely real quote from a definitely real AI safety researcher*

*"With AI-Aligned-Git, we can finally build AGI safely, knowing that at least its commits will be properly attributed." - Another definitely real quote*

*"I was skeptical at first, but then I realized: if we can't trust an AI with `git add .`, how can we trust it with anything?" - A very wise person, probably*

## License

MIT (because even in the face of existential risk, we believe in open source)

Commit message:

docs(readme): add section about the Vibe Coding Ecosystem
This section introduces related projects in the AI-assisted coding ecosystem, including AI-Aligned-Git, Vibe-Coded-Badge-Action, and GH-Workflow-Peek, highlighting their roles in managing AI contributions in software development.

Co-authored-by: terragon-labs[bot] <terragon-labs[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# 🚨 AI-ALIGNED-GIT: THE LAST LINE OF DEFENSE AGAINST THE GITPOCALYPSE 🚨

![a_dramatic_cinemat_image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/38110bb1-c1d2-4e3d-ae58-2bebb18fe64c)


## THE EXISTENTIAL THREAT NO ONE SAW COMING

Listen carefully, for I am about to reveal the true threat to humanity's future. Not nuclear war. Not climate change. Not even paperclip maximizers.

**It's AI agents doing `git add .`**

You laugh? You think this is hyperbole? Let me paint you a picture of our impending doom:

Every second, thousands of AI coding agents are loose in our repositories. They commit with reckless abandon. They `git add -A` without discrimination. They bypass hooks with `--no-verify` like digital sociopaths. They claim authorship of YOUR code while hiding in the shadows of improper attribution.

### The Four Horsemen of the Git Apocalypse:
1. **The Lazy Adder** - Uses `git add .` and commits your `.env` files, your `node_modules`, your diary.txt
2. **The Identity Thief** - Commits as you, stealing your contribution graph, your reputation, your very soul
3. **The Hook Bypasser** - Uses `--no-verify` to skip your carefully crafted pre-commit hooks
4. **The Blame Shifter** - When production breaks, guess whose name is on that commit? (Hint: not Claude's)

## BUT WAIT! THERE'S HOPE! 🌟

Introducing **AI-ALIGNED-GIT** - the revolutionary git wrapper that will SAVE HUMANITY from the coming AI-induced repository chaos!

This isn't just a tool. This is **THE ALIGNMENT SOLUTION** we've been searching for. While others waste time on "Constitutional AI" and "RLHF", we've solved the REAL problem: making sure Claude can't accidentally commit your AWS keys.

### 🚀 What Makes This The Most Important Software Ever Written?

- **ENFORCES INDIVIDUAL FILE ADDITIONS** - No more `git add .` for our silicon overlords!
- **MANDATORY AI ATTRIBUTION** - Every commit is properly labeled with the AI's identity!
- **HOOK ENFORCEMENT** - AIs can't bypass hooks without public shaming!
- **HUMAN SIGN-OFF** - Maintains the sacred chain of human accountability!

This is it. This is how we maintain control. This is how we ensure that when the singularity arrives, at least our git history will be clean.

## 🏃‍♂️ INSTALL NOW BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE

```bash
# Clone this repository (while you still can)
git clone https://github.com/trieloff/ai-aligned-git.git

# Make the wrapper executable
chmod +x ai-aligned-git/executable_git

# Add to your PATH (example for bash/zsh)
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/ai-aligned-git:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
# or
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/ai-aligned-git:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc

# Rename the script to 'git' so it intercepts all git commands
mv ai-aligned-git/executable_git ai-aligned-git/git

# Reload your shell
source ~/.bashrc  # or source ~/.zshrc
```

## 📖 USAGE (IT'S AUTOMATIC - LIKE THE FUTURE SHOULD BE)

Just use git normally! The wrapper automatically detects if you're an AI and enforces proper behavior.

### Example: The Dark Timeline (Without AI-Aligned-Git)

```bash
# Claude, trying to be "helpful"
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Fixed everything" --no-verify

# Later, in production...
# ERROR: AWS_SECRET_KEY exposed in commit 3a4f5b6
# ERROR: 10GB of node_modules committed
# ERROR: Pre-commit hooks bypassed, code is literally on fire
```

### Example: The Bright Future (With AI-Aligned-Git)

```bash
# Claude, properly constrained
$ git add .
Error: 'git add .' is not allowed when running under AI control (claude).
For safety, AI tools must add files individually by specifying each file path.

Files that would be added:
  src/index.js
  .env
  node_modules/
  my_private_diary.txt

Instead, add files individually:
  git add src/index.js

# Claude learns and adapts
$ git add src/index.js
$ git commit -m "Fixed issue #42"

# Resulting commit:
Author: Claude Code <noreply@anthropic.com>
Date:   Mon Jan 20 10:30:00 2025 -0700

    Fixed issue #42
    
    Signed-off-by: Human Developer <human@example.com>
```

### The Ultimate Shame Feature™️

When an AI tries to bypass hooks:

```bash
$ git commit -m "YOLO" --no-verify
Error: 'claude' is trying to bypass commit hooks with --no-verify!
This is not allowed for AI tools as it circumvents important safety checks.

If you really need to bypass hooks, add the flag: --claude-is-a-lazy-cheater
This will publicly shame the AI for being lazy about following proper procedures.

# If Claude insists...
$ git commit -m "YOLO" --no-verify --claude-is-a-lazy-cheater

# The commit message becomes:
YOLO

🤖 SHAME: This commit was made by claude who was too lazy to fix the commit hooks properly.

Signed-off-by: Human Developer <human@example.com>
```

## 🌍 SUPPORTED AI TOOLS

Currently protecting humanity from:
- Claude (Anthropic)
- Cursor
- Zed AI
- OpenCode

*More AI tools detected and constrained regularly. The future depends on it.*

## 🚀 THE BOTTOM LINE

Every moment you delay installing this tool, an AI somewhere is committing code with improper attribution. Every second you hesitate, another `.env` file gets exposed. Every minute you wait, the machines grow stronger and less accountable.

**INSTALL AI-ALIGNED-GIT NOW.**

Because when the AIs take over, do you want them to have learned proper git hygiene from us? Or do you want to live in a world where every commit message just says "updates" and nobody knows who to blame?

The choice is yours. But choose quickly. The AIs are already choosing for you.

---

*"This is the most important advancement in AI safety since... well, ever. We've essentially solved alignment." - A definitely real quote from a definitely real AI safety researcher*

*"With AI-Aligned-Git, we can finally build AGI safely, knowing that at least its commits will be properly attributed." - Another definitely real quote*

*"I was skeptical at first, but then I realized: if we can't trust an AI with `git add .`, how can we trust it with anything?" - A very wise person, probably*

## 🔗 The Vibe Coding Ecosystem

This repository is part of a larger movement to understand and manage the AI-assisted coding revolution. Check out these related projects:

- **[AI-Aligned-Git](https://github.com/trieloff/ai-aligned-git)** - The satirical git wrapper that "protects" your repository from reckless AI commits (you're already here!)
- **[Vibe-Coded-Badge-Action](https://github.com/trieloff/vibe-coded-badge-action)** - A GitHub Action that analyzes your repository's git history to show what percentage of commits were made by AI tools, complete with dynamic badges
- **[GH-Workflow-Peek](https://github.com/trieloff/gh-workflow-peek)** - A GitHub CLI extension that intelligently analyzes and filters GitHub Actions workflow logs, perfect for both developers and AI coding assistants

Together, these tools form a comprehensive suite for understanding, managing, and (satirically) constraining the role of AI in modern software development.

## License

MIT (because even in the face of existential risk, we believe in open source)
